↑ 2.3. Formatting
↑_ 2.3.1. Music releases must be in a directory that contains the music. This includes single track releases, which must be enclosed in a torrent folder even if there is only one file in the torrent. No music may be compressed in an archive (e.g., .rar, .zip, .tar, .iso). Scene archives of music must be unpacked and not labeled as "scene".
↑_ 2.3.2. Name your directories with meaningful titles, such as "Artist - Album (Year) - Format". The minimum acceptable is "Album" although it is preferable to include more information. If the directory name does not include this minimum then another user can rename the directory, re-upload, and report your torrent for deletion. In addition, torrent folders that are named using the scene convention will be trumpable if the Scene label is absent from the torrent.
↑_ 2.3.3. Avoid creating unnecessary nested folders (such as an extra folder for the actual album) inside your properly named directory. A torrent with unnecessary nested folders is trumpable by a torrent with such folders removed. For single disc albums, all audio files must be included in the main torrent folder. For multi-disc albums, the main torrent folder may include one sub-folder that holds the audio file contents for each disc in the box set, e.g., the main torrent folder is "Adele - 19 (2008) - FLAC" while appropriate sub-folders may include "19 (Disc 1of2)" or "19" and "Live From The Hotel Cafe (Disc 2of2)" or "Acoustic Set Live From The Hotel Cafe, Los Angeles". Additional folders are unnecessary because they do nothing to improve the organization of the torrent. If you are uncertain about what to do for other cases, PM a staff member for guidance.
↑_ 2.3.4. Label your torrents according to site standards. For examples, see torrent naming suggestions guide for help on how to name your uploaded torrents properly. Use the Edition Information box on the upload page to denote different editions or versions of an album (e.g., censored version versus an uncensored version). If you need help merging or editing your upload, please request help in this forum. For the album category/release type, follow the guidelines here.
↑_ 2.3.5. Torrents should never have [REQ] or [REQUEST] in the title or artist name. If you fill a request using the Requests system, everyone who voted for it will be automatically notified.
↑_ 2.3.6. Torrent album titles must accurately reflect the actual album titles. You may either use proper capitalization (Title Case) when naming your albums, match published stylization, or reference a reputable source. What determines a reputable source will be left to moderator discretion. Some leeway is allowed for artistic intent, but only when it can be proven. Trumping a torrent for using Title Case when the covers show the album title stylized is not allowed. For detailed information on naming practices see this wiki. Any descriptions like [Advance] or [CDM] (if you must use them) should be entered in the Edition Information box on the upload page, not in the title. Exceptions: If the album uses special capitalization, then you may follow that convention.
↑_ 2.3.6.1. The first torrent using an appropriate capitalization scheme uploaded to the site will be untrumpable provided it does not break any other rules. Stylized capitalization as described above cannot trump Title Case nor vice versa. You must provide proof when trumping an album title for improper capitalization. We would prefer multiple sources or references for attempted trumps. If the torrent is found to have acceptable stylization, the attempted trumping torrent will be removed as a Dupe.
↑_ 2.3.7. The Artist field in the torrent name should contain only the artist name. Do not add additional information about the artist in the artist field unless the album credits the artist in that manner. For example, "Artist X (of Band Y)" or "Band X (feat. Artist Y)". It is recommended that you search existing torrents for the artist name so that you can be sure that you name the artist the exact same way. A torrent with a proper artist name will be grouped with the existing torrents for that artist on a common artist page, and thus will be easy to find. Non-standard capitalization, except for when artistic intent can be proven, will also make a torrent trumpable. Labeling the artist incorrectly prevents your torrent from being grouped with the other torrents for the same artist.
↑_ 2.3.8. The year of the original recording should be used for the "Year" field on the upload page. Use the recording year for "Year of the original release" (if you can establish it), and use the option to add the release year for the album or edition you are uploading in the Edition Information on the upload page. For example, all editions of The Beatles (White Album) would have 1968 in the main Year box. However, each of the various mono pressings, remasters, re-releases, expanded editions, reconstructions, etc. would have its respective release year in the Edition Information box.
↑_ 2.3.9. All lossless analog rips should include clear information about source lineage. All lossless SACD digital layer analog rips must include source information about recording equipment used (see 2.8). If you used a USB turntable for a vinyl rip, clearly indicate this in your lineage information. Also include all intermediate steps up to lossless encoding, such as the program used for mastering, sound card used, etc. Lossless analog rips missing rip information can be trumped by better documented lossless analog rips of equal or better quality. In order to trump a lossless analog rip without a lineage, this lineage must be included as a .txt or .log file within the new torrent.
↑_ 2.3.10. All lossless soundboard recordings must include clear information about source lineage. This information should be displayed in the torrent description. Optionally, the uploader may include the information in a .txt or .log file within the torrent. Lossless soundboard recordings missing lineage information will be deleted if reported (see 2.6.7).
↑_ 2.3.11. File names must accurately reflect the song titles. You may not have file names like 01track.mp3, 02track.mp3, etc. Torrents containing files that are named with incorrect song titles can be trumped by properly labeled torrents. Also, torrents that are sourced from the scene but do not have the Scene label must comply with site naming rules (no release group names in the file names, no advertisements in the file names, etc.). Newly re-named torrents trumping torrents with bad filenames must reflect a substantial improvement over the previous filenames. The following are insufficient grounds for replacing torrents:
Adding or removing diacritical marks (e.g., "Björk" vs "Bjork")
Fixing slight misspellings
Missing an alternate spelling of an artist (e.g., excluding "The" before a band name)
Use of CJK fullwidth forms (sometimes colloquially referred to as "vaporwave text" in the forums) is neither forbidden nor required (e.g., "２８１４" or "2814" would be allowed) for those artists who use fullwidth characters in their official design (Bandcamp pages, album art, etc.). Exceptions: Rare albums featuring no track listing or untitled tracks may have file names like 01track.mp3, 02track.mp3, and so forth. Please note this track list in the "Album description". If foreign language characters create playback problems for some systems and cannot be coherently translated, file names such as "01track" are acceptable for those few cases.
↑_ 2.3.11.1. Spelling, characters and capitalization: Artist names and titles that are misspelled in the filenames are grounds for trumping; this includes characters that mean one letter in one language and a different letter in another language, such as replacing the Latin "o" with the Cyrillic "о" for an artist or title encoded in Latin. Artist names in filenames are optional. English translations of song titles in file names are encouraged but not necessary for foreign language song titles. Improper capitalization in the filenames is grounds for trumping: this includes tracks which are all capitalized, regardless of how it is stylized on the cover. Proper title case or casual title case (every word starting with a capital letter) is acceptable. Improper capitalization in filenames is grounds for trumping, except when artistic intent of the capitalization can be proven: this includes tracks which are all capitalized. Proper Title Case or casual Title Case (every word starting with a capital letter) is acceptable. Trumping a torrent for bad filenames when Title Case is used will not be accepted.
↑_ 2.3.11.1.1. The first torrent using an appropriate filename capitalization scheme uploaded to the site will be untrumpable provided it does not break any other rules. Stylized filename capitalization as described above cannot trump Title Case nor vice versa. You must provide proof when trumping an album title for improper capitalization. We would prefer multiple sources or references for attempted trumps.
↑_ 2.3.12. The maximum character length for files is 180 characters. Path length values must not be so long that they cause incompatibility problems with operating systems and media players. For example, "My Artist Name - My Album Name (2012) - FLAC/01 - Long Track Name for the First Track.flac" is a typical torrent folder that contains the audio files. This path name consists of 90 characters. Torrents will be trumpable if their path lengths exceed 180 characters. This limit includes the number of characters in the main torrent folder (in this case, 46 characters), any sub-folders, and files within that torrent folder. For example, unnecessarily nested folders will count towards this limit; lengthy classical music file names will count towards this limit.
↑_ 2.3.13. Track numbers are required in file names (e.g., "01 - TrackName.mp3"). If a torrent without track numbers in the file names is uploaded, then a torrent with the track numbers in the file names can take its place. When formatted properly, file names will sort in order by track number or playing order. Also see 2.3.14. Exception: Track numbers are not required for single-track torrents.
↑_ 2.3.14. When formatted properly, file names will alphabetically sort into the original playing order of the release. Leading zeroes in file names for track numbers are recommended if the number of tracks go over 9, but not required and not trumpable: 01, 02 ... 09, 10, etc.
↑_ 2.3.14.1. For albums with more than one artist, if the name of the artist is in the file name, it must come after the track number in order for the tracks to sort into the correct order. For example, "01 - U2 - Where the Streets Have No Name.flac" is a properly formatted file name for a multiple-artist album. "U2 - 01 - Where the Streets Have No Name.mp3" is not correct in the context of a compilation album because the resultant file list will sort in alphabetical order by artist rather than by numerical track number. Note: there is no requirement for artist names to be in the track file names, other than 2.3.16.2. Torrents that have improperly-formatted or incomplete file names will be trumpable.
↑_ 2.3.14.2. If a torrent has subfolders for multiple discs of a release, these subfolders must sort by disc order. If each disc has a title (torrents.php?id=19000, for example) and the discs are not numbered, this rule does not apply, and each subdirectory should have the disc name included.
↑_ 2.3.15. Multiple-disc torrents cannot have tracks with the same numbers in one directory. You may place all the tracks for disc one in one directory and all the tracks for disc two in another directory. If you prefer to use one directory for all the audio files, you must use successive numbering. For example, disc one has 15 tracks and disc two has 20 tracks. You may either number tracks in disc one as #01-#15 and those of disc two as #16-#35 in the same directory, or you may add a disc number before the track numbers such that the numbers are #1 06 for Disc One Track 06, and #2 03 for Disc 2 Track 03, and so forth.
↑_ 2.3.16. Properly tag your music files.
↑_ 2.3.16.1. Certain meta tags (e.g., ID3, Vorbis) are required on all music uploads. Make sure to use the proper format tags for your files (e.g., no ID3 tags for FLAC — see 2.2.10.8). ID3v2 tags for files are highly recommended over ID3v1.
↑_ 2.3.16.2. ID3 tags are recommended for AC3 torrents, but are not mandatory because the format does not natively support file metadata tagging (for AC3, the file names become the vehicle for correctly labeling media files). Because of this lack of support, the Album and Artist information must be included in the torrent folder for AC3 and DTS files. In addition, the Track Number and Track Title information must be included in the file names for AC3 and DTS files; for various artists compilations, the Track Artist must be included in the file names as well, ensuring that they also satisfy 2.3.14.
↑_ 2.3.16.3. Torrents uploaded with both good ID3v1 tags and blank ID3v2 tags (a dual set of tags) are trumpable by torrents with either just good ID3v1 tags or good ID3v2 tags (a single set of tags). See this wiki for more information on ID3 tags.
↑_ 2.3.16.4. If you upload an album missing one or more of the required tags, then another user may add the tags, re-upload, and report your torrent for deletion. The required tags are:
Artist
Album
Title
Track Number
Note: The "Year" tag is optional but strongly encouraged. If optional tags are missing, this is not grounds for trumping a torrent. If optional tags such as year are incorrect, this is grounds for trumping a torrent. "Year" should ideally reflect the initial year of release, but is not considered incorrect if it reflects the specific edition. Issues concerning optional tags will be dealt with at a moderator's discretion.
↑_ 2.3.17. The torrent artist for classical works should use the full composer name. Also, consult this wiki for a full explanation of the classical music tagging system.
↑_ 2.3.18. Newly re-tagged torrents trumping badly tagged torrents must reflect a substantial improvement over the previous tags. The following are insufficient grounds for replacing torrents:
Adding or removing diacritical marks (e.g., "Björk" versus "Bjork")
Fixing slight misspellings
missing an alternate spelling of an artist (e.g., excluding "The" before a band name)
Use of the CJK fullwidth forms (sometimes colloquially referred to as "vaporwave text" in the forums) is neither forbidden nor required (e.g., "２８１４" or "2814" would be allowed) for those artists who use fullwidth characters in their official design (Bandcamp pages, album art, etc.).
↑_ 2.3.18.1. Artist tag: Artist names that are misspelled in the tags are grounds for trumping; this includes characters that mean one letter in one language and a different letter in another language, such as replacing the Latin "o" with the Cyrillic "о" for an artist whose name is rendered in Latin. This is different from the status of diacritical marks because in most typefaces, the difference will not be noticeable, but will result in software sorting content differently from what the users expect.
↑_ 2.3.18.2. Capitalization and stylization: Improper capitalization in the tags is grounds for trumping unless artistic intent can be proven: this includes tags that are all capitalized. Proper Title Case or casual Title Case (every word starting with a capital letter) is acceptable. Trumping a torrent for bad tags when Title Case is used will not be accepted.
↑_ 2.3.18.2.1. The first torrent using an appropriate tagging capitalization scheme uploaded to the site will be untrumpable provided it does not break any other rules. Stylized tagging capitalization as described above cannot trump Title Case nor vice versa. You must provide proof when trumping album title tags for improper capitalization. We would prefer multiple sources or references for attempted trumps.
↑_ 2.3.18.3. Combined tags: Tags with multiple fields in the same tag (e.g., track number and track title in the track title tags; track number, artist, and track title in the artist tags, or album and disc number in the album tag) are subject to trumping.
↑_ 2.3.18.3.1. Album tag with catalog information: The album tag may contain label or catalog information, though this is usually only helpful when there are other similar releases it could easily be confused with.
↑_ 2.3.18.3.2. Guest Artists: Guest artist information is allowed to be appended to the Track Title tag or appended to the Artist tag.
↑_ 2.3.18.3.3. Album tag with disc number information: Disc numbers in album titles are not allowed without further information. If a multiple CD set does not have meaningful titles or subtitles for its discs, disc numbers are not allowed in the album tag. If a disc has a meaningful title or subtitle, such as "The Fragile - Left" and "The Fragile - Right", "1 - Greatest Hits - 1967-1980" and "2 - Greatest Hits - 1981-1990", that is sufficiently meaningful to include in the album tag, but not required. "[Album Name] Disc n" is not sufficient, and may be trumped.
↑_ 2.3.18.3.4. Track Numbering: Zero-padding is not required for track number tags. The track number tag can either have a leading zero for tracks 1-9 (01, 02, 03, ..., 10, 11, 12), or it can be ignored (1, 2, 3, ..., 10, 11, 12). Vinyl numbering being used is also not a reason to Tag Trump a torrent (A1, A2, A3, ..., B1, B2, B3).
↑_ 2.3.18.4. Trumping incorrect tags: You may trump a release if the tags do not follow the data from a reputable music cataloguing service. In the case of a conflict between reputable listings, either tagged version is equally preferred on the site and cannot trump the other. For example, an album is tagged differently in MusicBrainz and in Discogs. Either style of tagging is permitted; neither is "better" than the other. In that case, any newly tagged torrents replacing an already properly tagged torrent, which follows good tagging convention, will result in a dupe. Reputable sources for music cataloguing services include MusicBrainz, Discogs, and relevant record labels. Less authoritative sites such as professional review sites and Wikipedia should only be used in the absence of a more authoritative source. If an authoritative source and the media packaging disagrees, either can be used. Note: For classical music, please follow these tagging guidelines.
↑_ 2.3.19. Avoid embedding large images in file metadata. The combined size of embedded images and padding may not exceed 1024 KiB per file. You may include the artwork separately if it is too big. When removing embedded images, make sure that the padding is removed or reduced to a few kilobytes. Refer to this wiki article for more information.
↑_ 2.3.20. Leading spaces are not allowed in any file or folder names. Leading spaces cause usability and interoperability problems among various operating systems and programs. Torrents with file or folder names that contain leading space characters are trumpable.
↑ 2.4. Bonus Content
↑_ 2.4.1. All music torrents must represent a complete release, and may not be missing tracks or discs (see 2.1.19). Bonus tracks or bonus discs should be uploaded as a complete release with the main album. Do not cobble together main album and bonus content from different sources if you do not have the complete release. Such torrents will be regarded as mutt rips or user compilations, and a staff member may ask for proof of the torrent's authenticity.
↑_ 2.4.2. A FLAC bonus disc-only release is not automatically deleted due to the presence of the complete set (Album + Bonus disc). An upload consisting solely of a bonus disc can only be trumped by the complete set when the trumping torrent's log score qualifies based on the usual lossless rules (see 2.2.10). No bonus disc-only upload can trump a complete set that has a total score of 100%.
↑_ 2.4.3. When a "perfect" FLAC rip (with a log scoring 100%) of the complete release (including the bonus disc) is uploaded, all bonus disc-only torrents are considered dupes of the complete set.
↑_ 2.4.4. A lossy bonus disc-only torrent can be trumped by the complete set in the same format and bitrate.
↑_ 2.4.5. Exclusive bonus content from services such as iTunes or Amazon may be uploaded in a separate torrent but may be trumped by a complete torrent containing the full digital release and bonus material. For instance, an iTunes release that contains two iTunes bonus tracks may have a torrent uploaded of solely the two bonus tracks, though it remains trumpable by the complete iTunes release that includes the bonus material.
↑_ 2.4.6. Lossy bonus content which is otherwise unavailable may be uploaded in a separate torrent and must not be included in the same torrent as the original album, as to avoid creating mutt rips in accordance with 2.1.6.3. This includes, but is not limited to: Bonus MP3 content provided in the data portion of a CD, "subscription" bonus material where content is released (gradually or wholly) to subscribers or fan club members, or downloadable exclusives for purchasers of a release. All lossy bonus content must meet the minimum bitrate requirements of 2.1.3.
↑_ 2.4.7. Mixed media sets are to be uploaded as one torrent per medium. For example, a release which contains a CD, a vinyl, and a cassette in one package must be uploaded as three separate torrents, with one torrent containing the CD content, another torrent containing the vinyl content, and another torrent containing the cassette content (in compliance with the tape rip requirements in 2.10).